Solomon had three horrible half-brothers, Amnon, Adonijah, and Absalom.
They were a lot older than he was, but Solomon didn't try to imitate them, and he didn't
allow himself to be stumbled by their bad conduct, as if to say, well, if that's the kind
of people they have around here, I want nothing to do with your hopeless witnesses.
So Solomon followed his own path.
He developed a strong personal relationship with Jehovah God.
And remember what the Bible says about Solomon in the beginning, Jehovah loved him, isn't
that nice?
Wouldn't you love it if that were said about you, I would?
Jehovah loved Solomon.
And Jehovah blessed Solomon in many ways.
For example, while Solomon was faithful, Israel was at peace.
In fact, Solomon said, Jehovah, my God, has given me rest all around.
There is no one opposing me, and I have nothing bad is happening.
So it was only after Solomon became unfaithful that resistors were raised up in Israel.
Not only was Israel at peace when Solomon was at peace with God, but Israel was rich.
Solomon had no financial problems.
The Bible says that the silver was as common as the stones.
But when Solomon started drawing away from Jehovah, Jehovah withdrew his blessing.
And so that prosperity didn't last even during Solomon's reign.
This site tells us there was a drain on Israel's economy.
A Solomon was still spending money as if it were going out of style.
But he didn't have the income that he once had.
And so even materially Israel suffered and reaborm did not inherit the wealth from Solomon
that Solomon had had at the peak of his reign.
Now as our comment points out for much of his reign, Solomon did a lot of good things.
What is it possible that right from the beginning, as involved as Solomon was in theocratic
projects, there was a little red flag that something wasn't quite right, it's possible.
Now as our comment points out, when Solomon became king, he was a young man, but he was
a young married man.
In fact, when he became king, Solomon had probably been married for a couple of years already.
He had a little boy.
He was a daddy.
He had a little boy, one year old, reaborm.
But who was his wife?
Probably his first wife.
She was an ammonitus.
Ammonitus.
What do we remember about ammonitus?
Oh yes, Deuteronomy chapter 23 and verse 3.
Now remember, when Solomon gets married, King David is still alive.
David is probably at the wedding.
Now here's what Deuteronomy 23 says.
No ammonite or mohobite may come into the congregation of Jehovah.
Even to the tenth generation, none of their descendants may ever come into the congregation
of Jehovah.
But a part of never did Solomon not understand.
And so could that mean that even before he became king, Solomon had a casual view of Jehovah's
laws on marriage?
It's possible.
Well, why do we say possible?
Well without being dogmatic, insight says that there may have been exceptions for foreign
women like Ruth, the mohobitis.
Inside also says that Solomon's ammonite wife possibly contributed to his apostasy.
In any event, why was the first wife a foreign woman and an animitis to boot?
Now if Solomon had married a nice Jewish girl, just one, and rejoiced with the wife of
his youth, don't you think that the history of Israel would have been much different?
I think it would have been.
Now let's take a moment to think about the women Solomon did marry, pagan women.
Now you may have relatives who are not in the truth.
You love your relatives and you go visit from time to time.
But how long is it before you run out of things to talk about?
Because we just don't have the most important thing in common, the truth.
What do we have to ask?
Why was Solomon so comfortable with these pagan women?
What did he talk about?
Well, you can be sure he wasn't studying the watchtower with them, but what was he doing?
What was the attraction to these foreign women?
Was it their humility, their modest dress, their chased conduct, their quiet and mild
spirit, or was it mainly the physical?
Let's be blunt.
Solomon was attracted to the wrong kind of woman, and there may have been early warning
signs.
Speaking of red flags, when Solomon began marrying many women, I did a prophet or a priest
ever approach him, and give him some counsel, did they ever read the Deuteronomy 17, 17
which applied directly to the king, Deuteronomy 17, 17?
It says about the king, neither should he take many wives for himself, so that his heart
may not go astray.
Well, if he did receive that counsel, he certainly didn't apply it, and if he didn't receive
that counsel, we wonder why not.
Well, what's the application?
Today we may be very busy in Jehovah's organization, but we have to be alert to any red flags
that, despite outward appearances, all is not well with us.
A single brother is a regular publisher.
He is a regular meeting attender, but on his night nights off, he likes to go to night
clubs, and he's comfortable in that atmosphere.
He isn't shy about striking up conversations with worldly people, and he loves to dance.
Well, there are no sisters there, so he dances with worldly women.
What's the attraction?
He's busy in the congregation, but there's something there that isn't quite right.
A young pioneer brother loves to flirt.
Several young sisters think he's interested only in them.
The attention makes them feel special.
A ministerial servant spends a lot of time talking to a married woman.
When he's asked about it, he justifies it and says, we're just friends.
We're just talking, famous last words.
A fine young sister is offended when an older sister approaches her and points out that
her skirts and jeans are too tight to revealing.
Well, all these are red flags.
We need to examine ourselves from time to time to see whether, no matter how many privileges
we have, something isn't quite right.
When it comes to choosing a mate, Solomon's example can be instructive to us, how what
qualities do we value in a marriage mate, spiritual qualities, or is it mainly the physical
and we hope that the spiritual will catch up later.
A young sister is getting acquainted with a young brother.
He's really good-looking.
Has a great personality that gets along with everybody, but how's he doing spiritually?
Does he have a good schedule for theocratic activities and does he stick to it?
For example, if you mention an article in a recent magazine, does he often say, I must have
missed that one?
And that's what happens.
It's a bad sign.
Does he make spiritual activities a priority in his life?
If he doesn't do that while he's single, what makes you think that he's going to do it
after you get married?
Will you change him or will he change you?
Because our comment reminds us, Solomon and Joe had many privileges, but he apparently
felt that some of God's laws just didn't apply to him.
Why not?
Well, we don't know.
Could it be what Solomon said in Ecclesiastes, the King does whatever he wants?
Maybe so.
Solomon multiplied horses and acquired many wives for himself.
So what's the lesson for us?
No matter how long we've been in the truth, no matter how many privileges we've
we have, no matter how much Jehovah has used us, we can't afford to let down our guard.
We must guard our heart, and we mustn't ignore any red flags that might indicate that
all is not well.